So basically you're saying that
iterative deepening is almost free
because of the exponential
nature of the problem?
>> Yeah.
>> And I bet that iterative deepening
really helps when you have a game like
Isolation with the wildly
varying branching factor.
>> How so?
>> Well when we calculated that we
should only go nine levels deep
in a five-by-five isolation tree
to return within two seconds.
We assumed a branching factor of eight.
Yet toward the end game, Isolation
players only have a few moves available.
We might be able to search
much more deeply at end game.
>> And often,
end game is precisely the time,
that you want to search more deeply,
so you can see what will happen.
>> On the other hand at the beginning of
the game the branching factor is quite
large.
Our computer player might not
return within two seconds.
>> Correct.
Iterative deepening means
that our computer player
always has an answer ready in
case it runs out of time and
it can search as far as possible
within its time constraints.
We limited our time to
two seconds per move.
Yet in some games, like speed chess,
we limit the total time a player
can take for the entire game.
In those situations, our computer player
will want to search deeper in some
parts of the game and
shallower in other parts of the game.
Often we can create a strategy for
how deep we want to search.
>> So something like having a book
of standard initial moves for
the beginning of the game,
then search deeper in the middle and
use less time towards the end.
Relying on the reduction and
branching factor and
iterative deepening to still allow our
computer player to search to end game or
as deep as it can given
the remaining time.
>> Or we might want to have a
conservative amount of time we dedicate
per move and use iterative deepening and
quiescent search to determine the few
moves we wanted to spend extra time.
All these are great strategies, but
we can still get into trouble due to
something called the horizon effect.